--001--
Tim Urban: Inside the mind of a master procrastinator

   http://v.youku.com/v_show/id_XMTUyMTczNTAwOA==.html   

So in college, I was a government major, which means I had to write a lot of papers. Now, when a normal student writes a paper, they might spread the work out a little like this. So, you know --
在大学里我是政府专业的，这意味着我需要写很多的论文。现在，当一个正常的学生写一篇论文，他们可能这样分配任务。就像这样 --
you get started maybe a little slowly, but you get enough done in the first week that, with some heavier days later on, everything gets done, things stay civil.
你一开始起步可能有点儿慢，但是第一周已经足够，过几天任务加重，最后一切都完成，事情很有条理。
And I would want to do that like that. That would be the plan. I would have it all ready to go, but then, actually, the paper would come along, and then I would kind of do this.
并且我也想这样做。这就是我的计划。我会安排得很好，但后来，事实上论文一直出现，然后我只能这样做了。
And that would happen every single paper.
并且每一篇单独的论文都是这样。
But then came my 90-page senior thesis, a paper you're supposed to spend a year on. And I knew for a paper like that, my normal work flow was not an option. It was way too big a project. So I planned things out, and I decided I kind of had to go something like this. This is how the year would go. So I'd start off light, and I'd bump it up in the middle months, and then at the end, I would kick it up into high gear just like a little staircase. How hard could it be to walk up the stairs? No big deal, right?
但是当我的90页毕业论文出现时，这篇论文你要花一年来完成。我也知道，对于这样的一篇论文，我的正常工作流不是一个选择。这个工程太大了。所以我定了计划，并且我决定我得这样做。这是这一年的安排。所以我开始轻一些，并且我会在中间的月份提升，最后我会进入高速档就有点儿像爬楼梯。爬楼梯能有多困难呢？不是什么大问题，对吧？
But then, the funniest thing happened. Those first few months? They came and went, and I couldn't quite do stuff. So we had an awesome new revised plan.
但是后来，有趣的事情发生了。开始的几个月？他们来了又走了，我甚至没做事。所以我们有了一个绝妙的新的修订版的计划。
And then --
然后 --
But then those middle months actually went by, and I didn't really write words, and so we were here. And then two months turned into one month, which turned into two weeks. And one day I woke up with three days until the deadline, still not having written a word, and so I did the only thing I could: I wrote 90 pages over 72 hours, pulling not one but two all-nighters -- humans are not supposed to pull two all-nighters -- sprinted across campus, dove in slow motion, and got it in just at the deadline.
但是后来这些中间的几个月事实上也走开了，我真的没写一个字，所以我们到这里了。然后2个月变成了一个月，变成了两周。有一天我醒过来距离截止日期只有三天了，我还是没有写一个字，所以我做了我能做的唯一一件事：我在72小时里写了90页，熬了两个晚上而不是一个 -- 人不应该熬两个晚上 -- 在学校里全力冲刺，就像慢动作的鸽子，然后刚好在截止日期上交。
I thought that was the end of everything. But a week later I get a call, and it's the school. And they say, "Is this Tim Urban?" And I say, "Yeah." And they say, "We need to talk about your thesis." And I say, "OK." And they say, "It's the best one we've ever seen."
我以为这样就结束了。然而一个礼拜以后我接到了一个电话，是学校打来的。他们说，“是Tim Urban吗？”我说，“是。”然后他们说，“我们得谈谈你的论文。”我说，“好吧。”他们说，“这是我们见过的最好的论文。”
That did not happen.
这并没有发生。
It was a very, very bad thesis.
那是一篇非常非常差劲的论文。
I just wanted to enjoy that one moment when all of you thought, "This guy is amazing!"
我只是想享受这样的一个时刻，你们都觉得，“这个家伙不可思议！”
No, no, it was very, very bad. Anyway, today I'm a writer-blogger guy. I write the blog Wait But Why. And a couple of years ago, I decided to write about procrastination. My behavior has always perplexed the non-procrastinators around me, and I wanted to explain to the non-procrastinators of the world what goes on in the heads of procrastinators, and why we are the way we are. Now, I had a hypothesis that the brains of procrastinators were actually different than the brains of other people. And to test this, I found an MRI lab that actually let me scan both my brain and the brain of a proven non-procrastinator, so I could compare them. I actually brought them here to show you today. I want you to take a look carefully to see if you can notice a difference. I know that if you're not a trained brain expert, it's not that obvious, but just take a look, OK? So here's the brain of a non-procrastinator.
不，不，这个非常非常差劲。无论如何，今天我是一个写博客的家伙。我写博客wait but why。并且几年前，我计划写关于拖延症的东西。我的行为总是困扰着我身边的无拖延症者，我想要解释给这些无拖延症者听，拖延症者的大脑和其他人的实际上是不同的。为了验证这个，我找了一个磁核共振实验室让我来对我的大脑和被证明是无拖延症者的大脑进行扫描，所以我就可以比较他们。我事实上把他们带到这里来给你们看今天。我想要你们仔细看看来发现是否你能够注意到一些不同。我知道如果你不是一个受过训练的脑专家，这不是那么明显，但是仅仅看看，好吗？这就是一个无拖延症者的大脑。
Now ... here's my brain.
现在...这是我的大脑。
There is a difference. Both brains have a Rational Decision-Maker in them, but the procrastinator's brain also has an Instant Gratification Monkey. Now, what does this mean for the procrastinator? Well, it means everything's fine until this happens.
这里有些区别。这两个大脑都有一个理性的决策者在他们里面，但是拖延症者的大脑还有一个快速享乐的猴子。现在，这意味着什么对拖延症者？好的，这意味着一切都还好直到这个发生。
[This is a perfect time to get some work done.] [Nope!]
这是一个完美的时刻来干点工作。不要！
So the Rational Decision-Maker will make the rational decision to do something productive, but the Monkey doesn't like that plan, so he actually takes the wheel, and he says, "Actually, let's read the entire Wikipedia page of the Nancy Kerrigan/ Tonya Harding scandal, because I just remembered that that happened.
所以这个理性决策者会制造理性的决定来做一些有创造力的事情，但是猴子不喜欢这个计划，所以他事实上接管了方向盘，并且他说，“事实上，让我们阅读整个Nancy Kerrigan/ Tonya Harding丑闻的维基百科页面，因为我记得这个发生了。”
Then --
然后 --
Then we're going to go over to the fridge, to see if there's anything new in there since 10 minutes ago. After that, we're going to go on a YouTube spiral that starts with videos of Richard Feynman talking about magnets and ends much, much later with us watching interviews with Justin Bieber's mom.
然后我们将检查冰箱，看看比10分钟之前那里有什么新东西。在这之后，我们将会继续开始Youtube探险，从Richard Feynman讨论磁性开始到很久很久以后我们看Justin Bieber母亲的访谈为止。
"All of that's going to take a while, so we're not going to really have room on the schedule for any work today. Sorry!"
所有这些都花了一会儿时间，所以我们今天不打算真的花时间干计划表上的工作了。对不起！
Now, what is going on here? The Instant Gratification Monkey does not seem like a guy you want behind the wheel. He lives entirely in the present moment. He has no memory of the past, no knowledge of the future, and he only cares about two things: easy and fun.
所以，什么发生了？这个快速享乐的猴子不像是一个你想要他在方向盘后面的家伙。他完全地活在当下。他没有过去的记忆，没有未来的概念，并且他只关心两件事：简单和有趣。
Now, in the animal world, that works fine. If you're a dog and you spend your whole life doing nothing other than easy and fun things, you're a huge success!
现在，在动物世界里，这个干的很好。如果你是一只狗并且你花整个狗命只做简单和有趣的事情不干别的，你会是一个伟大的成功！
And to the Monkey, humans are just another animal species. You have to keep well-slept, well-fed and propagating into the next generation, which in tribal times might have worked OK. But, if you haven't noticed, now we're not in tribal times. We're in an advanced civilization, and the Monkey does not know what that is. Which is why we have another guy in our brain, the Rational Decision-Maker, who gives us the ability to do things no other animal can do. We can visualize the future. We can see the big picture. We can make long-term plans. And he wants to take all of that into account. And he wants to just have us do whatever makes sense to be doing right now. Now, sometimes it makes sense to be doing things that are easy and fun, like when you're having dinner or going to bed or enjoying well-earned leisure time. That's why there's an overlap. Sometimes they agree. But other times, it makes much more sense to be doing things that are harder and less pleasant, for the sake of the big picture. And that's when we have a conflict. And for the procrastinator, that conflict tends to end a certain way every time, leaving him spending a lot of time in this orange zone, an easy and fun place that's entirely out of the Makes Sense circle. I call it the Dark Playground.
并且对猴子来说，人类是另外一种物种。你得睡好，吃好，并且繁衍下一代，这在部落时期也很不错。但是，如果你已经注意到了，现在我们不是在部落时代。我们在一个发达的文明，并且猴子不知道这是什么。这就是为什么我们大脑里有另外一个家伙，理性决策者，给我们能力去做没有其他动物能做的事情。我们可以视觉化未来。我们可以看到大图片。我们可以制作长期规划。并且他想要把这些都纳入考虑。并且他想要让我们做任何现在做是有意义的事情。现在，有时候做简单快乐的事情也是有意义的，就像当你吃晚饭或者睡觉或者享受完全应得的闲暇时光。这就是为什么存在瞌睡。有时候他们在一起。但是其他时候，做困难和不快乐的事情是更有意义的，看在大图片的份上。并且这就是我们拥有分歧的时候。对于拖延症者来说，每次这个分歧趋向于以一种特定的方式结束，把他放下花很多的时间在这个橘黄色区域里，一个简单快乐的地方完全在有意义圆圈之外。我把它叫做暗黑操场。
Now, the Dark Playground is a place that all of you procrastinators out there know very well. It's where leisure activities happen at times when leisure activities are not supposed to be happening. The fun you have in the Dark Playground isn't actually fun, because it's completely unearned, and the air is filled with guilt, dread, anxiety, self-hatred -- all of those good procrastinator feelings. And the question is, in this situation, with the Monkey behind the wheel, how does the procrastinator ever get himself over here to this blue zone, a less pleasant place, but where really important things happen?
现在，暗黑操场是你们全部在外面的拖延症者很熟悉的一个地方。那是闲暇活动总是发生但闲暇活动不该那时候发生的地方。在暗黑操场上你得到的快乐不是真正的快乐，因为他是完全不应得的，并且空气中充满了悔恨，害怕，焦虑，自责 -- 全部这些严重拖延症者的情感。问题是，在这种情况下，猴子在方向盘后面，拖延症者怎么会曾经把他自己放在蓝色区域，一个较少快乐的地方，但是真正重要的事情发生的地方？
Well, turns out the procrastinator has a guardian angel, someone who's always looking down on him and watching over him in his darkest moments -- someone called the Panic Monster.
好了，这说明拖延症者有一个守护天使，一个总是向下看着他的，在他最黑暗的时刻守望着他的 -- 有人叫他为惊慌怪兽。
Now, the Panic Monster is dormant most of the time, but he suddenly wakes up anytime a deadline gets too close or there's danger of public embarrassment, a career disaster or some other scary consequence. And importantly, he's the only thing the Monkey is terrified of. Now, he became very relevant in my life pretty recently, because the people of TED reached out to me about six months ago and invited me to do a TED Talk.
现在，惊慌怪兽大多数情况下都是潜伏的，但是他突然醒来在任何时候截止日期靠得太近或者出现了公开出丑的危险，职业生涯的灾难或者其他的可怕的结果。并且重要的是，他是唯一的猴子害怕的东西。现在，他最近在我的生活中变得非常相关，因为TED的人6个月前接触我并且请我做一个TED演讲。
Now, of course, I said yes. It's always been a dream of mine to have done a TED Talk in the past.
现在，当然，我说了好。在过去做一个TED演讲一直是我的一个梦想。
(Applause) But in the middle of all this excitement, the Rational Decision-Maker seemed to have something else on his mind. He was saying, "Are we clear on what we just accepted? Do we get what's going to be now happening one day in the future? We need to sit down and work on this right now." And the Monkey said, "Totally agree, but let's just open Google Earth and zoom in to the bottom of India, like 200 feet above the ground, and scroll up for two and a half hours til we get to the top of the country, so we can get a better feel for India."
但是在全部这样的兴奋之中，理性决策者看起来脑子里有些其他的想法。他说，“我们清楚刚刚我们接受了什么？我们知道未来的某一天会发生什么吗？我们需要坐下来并现在就开始工作。”猴子说，“完全同意，但是让我们打开Google Earth并且缩小到印度的底部，差不多地面上200英尺，然后向上滚动2.5个小时知道我们到达这个国家的顶部，所以我们可以对印度有一个更好的感觉。”
So that's what we did that day.
然后我们那天就干了这个。
As six months turned into four and then two and then one, the people of TED decided to release the speakers. And I opened up the website, and there was my face staring right back at me. And guess who woke up?
于是6个月变成了4个月然后是两个月然后是一个月，TED的人打算发布演讲者了。我打开了网站，我的脸正盯着我。猜猜看谁醒了？
So the Panic Monster starts losing his mind, and a few seconds later, the whole system's in mayhem.
所以惊慌怪兽开始精神失控了，几秒钟以后，整个系统陷入了混乱。
And the Monkey -- remember, he's terrified of the Panic Monster -- boom, he's up the tree! And finally, finally, the Rational Decision-Maker can take the wheel and I can start working on the talk.
猴子 -- 记住，他被惊慌怪兽吓到了 -- boom，他上了树！最后，最后，理性决策者能够掌控方向盘了，我能够开始做这个演讲。
Now, the Panic Monster explains all kinds of pretty insane procrastinator behavior, like how someone like me could spend two weeks unable to start the opening sentence of a paper, and then miraculously find the unbelievable work ethic to stay up all night and write eight pages. And this entire situation, with the three characters -- this is the procrastinator's system. It's not pretty, but in the end, it works. This is what I decided to write about on the blog a couple of years ago.
现在，惊慌怪兽解释了全部的疯狂的拖延症者行为，就像和我类似的这样的人可能花了两个星期却不能写下论文开头的一句话，然后奇迹般地发现了难以置信的工作伦理来熬整夜写八张纸。这全部的情形，伴随着这三种人格 -- 这就是拖延症者的系统。这不漂亮，但是在最后，这个系统起作用。这就是我几年前决定写在博客上的东西。
When I did, I was amazed by the response. Literally thousands of emails came in, from all different kinds of people from all over the world, doing all different kinds of things. These are people who were nurses, bankers, painters, engineers and lots and lots of PhD students.
当我这样做了，我被回应震惊了。差不多上千封邮件飞过来了，从世界各地不同的人，做着不同的事。有护士，银行家，画家，工程师和许多的PhD学生。
And they were all writing, saying the same thing: "I have this problem too." But what struck me was the contrast between the light tone of the post and the heaviness of these emails. These people were writing with intense frustration about what procrastination had done to their lives, about what this Monkey had done to them. And I thought about this, and I said, well, if the procrastinator's system works, then what's going on? Why are all of these people in such a dark place?
他们都写着，说着同样的话：“我也有这个毛病。”但是让我震惊的是邮件的轻描淡写和这些电子邮件的沉重之间的对比。这些人写的东西带着强烈的挫败感，关于拖延症对他们的生活做了什么，那个猴子对他们做了什么。我对这个产生了思考，我说，好吧，如果拖延症者的系统起作用的话，那么发生了什么？为什么这些人会处在这样一个黑暗的地方？
Well, it turns out that there's two kinds of procrastination. Everything I've talked about today, the examples I've given, they all have deadlines. And when there's deadlines, the effects of procrastination are contained to the short term because the Panic Monster gets involved. But there's a second kind of procrastination that happens in situations when there is no deadline. So if you wanted a career where you're a self-starter -- something in the arts, something entrepreneurial -- there's no deadlines on those things at first, because nothing's happening, not until you've gone out and done the hard work to get momentum, get things going. There's also all kinds of important things outside of your career that don't involve any deadlines, like seeing your family or exercising and taking care of your health, working on your relationship or getting out of a relationship that isn't working.
好吧，这说明这里存在两种拖延。我今天所说的全部，我举过的例子，他们都有最后期限。当存在最后期限，拖延的影响只会短时间存在，因为惊慌怪兽会出现。但是第二种拖延往往发生在没有最后期限的情况。所以如果你想要自学成才 -- 就像艺术或者创业 -- 这里一开始没有最后期限，因为什么也没有发生，直到你出发并且做这些困难的工作来获得动量，让事情起步。也有非职业的各种重要的没有最后期限的东西，就像看你的家庭或者锻炼或者关心自己的健康，维持一段感关系或者从一段不起作用的关系中出来。
Now if the procrastinator's only mechanism of doing these hard things is the Panic Monster, that's a problem, because in all of these non-deadline situations, the Panic Monster doesn't show up. He has nothing to wake up for, so the effects of procrastination, they're not contained; they just extend outward forever. And it's this long-term kind of procrastination that's much less visible and much less talked about than the funnier, short-term deadline-based kind. It's usually suffered quietly and privately. And it can be the source of a huge amount of long-term unhappiness, and regrets. And I thought, that's why those people are emailing, and that's why they're in such a bad place. It's not that they're cramming for some project. It's that long-term procrastination has made them feel like a spectator, at times, in their own lives. The frustration is not that they couldn't achieve their dreams; it's that they weren't even able to start chasing them.
现在如果拖延症者的唯一做困难事情的机制是惊慌怪兽，这是一个问题，因为在这种没有最后期限的情况下，惊慌怪兽不会出现。没有东西来唤醒他，所以拖延的影响没有终结；他们只是一直持续下去。这种长期的拖延比更有趣的短期的基于最后期限的拖延更隐形，更少被提及。我想，这就是为什么这些人发邮件，并且这就是为什么他们处于这样一个不利的境地。他们不是在为了某个项目临阵磨枪。长期的拖延使他们感到有时候自己是自己生活的旁观者。这种挫败感不是他们没能够实现梦想；这是他们甚至还没能开始追寻梦想。
So I read these emails and I had a little bit of an epiphany -- that I don't think non-procrastinators exist. That's right -- I think all of you are procrastinators. Now, you might not all be a mess, like some of us, and some of you may have a healthy relationship with deadlines, but remember: the Monkey's sneakiest trick is when the deadlines aren't there.
所以我读了这些电子邮件并且我有点儿顿悟 -- 我不认为非拖延症者存在。对 -- 我想你们都是拖延症者。现在，你们可能不是一团糟，就像我们中的一些，并且你们中的一些可能与最后期限有一个健康的关系，但是请记住：猴子最狡猾的技俩是在最后期限不存在的时候。
Now, I want to show you one last thing. I call this a Life Calendar. That's one box for every week of a 90-year life. That's not that many boxes, especially since we've already used a bunch of those. So I think we need to all take a long, hard look at that calendar. We need to think about what we're really procrastinating on, because everyone is procrastinating on something in life. We need to stay aware of the Instant Gratification Monkey. That's a job for all of us. And because there's not that many boxes on there, it's a job that should probably start today.
现在，我想要给你们看最后一样东西。我把它叫做生命日历。这是90年生命中的一周一格。这不是很多格子，特别是我们已经用掉了一些。所以我想我们都需要认真地仔细地看看这个日历。我们需要思考我们真正在拖延什么，因为我们中的每个都在拖延着生命中的一些东西。我们需要对快速享乐的猴子保持警惕。这是我们每个人的工作。并且应为这里没有很多格子，这是一个应当今天立即开始的工作。
Well, maybe not today, but ...
好吧，可能不是今天，但是...
You know. Sometime soon.
你知道的。越快越好。
Thank you.
谢谢你们。